okay welcome everybody uh this is the uh
town of Andover Board of Finance meeting
for Wednesday September 25th 2024 we'll
call the meeting to
order uh and recite the Pledge of
Allegiance I pledge allegiance to the
flag United States America and to the
Republic stand One
Nation indivisible
Liberty for all thank you um I think
everyone is aware probably on the meeing
that our main task today is to uh fill
the vacancy on the board of Finance we
have several candidates which is great
um hopefully we have everybody if not
they'll join um but we will follow the
agenda in order as Eric was explaining
to me earlier he is going to be uh
checking out of the meeting and once we
get through the uh old business before
we select the member um because he's
going on vacation so good for you are
well deserved right all right um so the
next agenda item is public speak um what
we do is ask any members of the public
or an attendance if they would care to
add anything in advance and I see
several members of the public I'm just
going to go in the order of my screen
I'm going to assume that the uh
candidates who are also members of the
public will speak once you get your turn
so if you know raise your hand virtually
or otherwise if you need to speak
somehow through the time uh Scott soyad
I see you first you have anything to add
during public
speak you muted Scott yeah can you hear
me now yeah we can now yeah okay my
headphones aren't working oh well um I
just wanted to speak on behalf of
Heather van Cara I have known her God
over 30 years um over 35 years in fact
she is one of the most competent people
I've ever met just in general she's got
Finance background from being an
underwriter she is but she is the person
you go to if you want a quiet solution
to a problem she will never raise a fuss
she is
um competent is is the the best word she
you know my wife describes it as she
doesn't have a panic button something
goes wrong she fixs it and she fixes it
quietly she fixes it well um she is as
organized a person as I've ever met she
to me my mind she is a great candidate
so that's it okay thank you
Scott uh have Christina
Fraser I have no comment thank you okay
thank
you um next up uh Jerry
CR no I'm just here to watch your
proceedings okay thank you Jerry uh
Julie
gorde I have no comment thank you okay
thank you Julie and then I've got a
phone number 860 810
3313 I don't know if you have any public
comment you're muted
if you do
I guess we'll
uh we uh will uh have to skip over that
then okay um we'll move on to our agenda
and just a couple of comments we are
taking care of the old business first
again ER can uh finish up and get
through this it should not take a lot of
time I don't anticipate it so appreciate
everybody's patience uh the next agenda
item is additions or changes to the
agenda
does anybody on the board want to um
move any additions or changes to the
agenda okay hearing none we will move on
to agenda item four which is the
approval of the prior years or prior
meeting minutes not prior years but uh
we have two different uh sets of meeting
minutes um one we had to revise because
there was an error but the meeting
minutes for July 24th and the meeting
minutes from August August 28th are on
the
table um I think we could probably have
one joint motion if anybody wants to
make a joint motion to approve those
meeting minutes Mark can I make a
comment real quick yep of course um I
know that I'm the one that requested
that we got get them revised um the July
24th I mean I'll take it up in a you
know in a a meet an upcoming meeting and
I won't take time with it tonight but I
really would like to see the minutes
just be a little bit more detailed I
appreciate the person going back and
adding some things and maybe I'll I'll
put some feedback together I just think
it's important to get a little bit more
information out there for the town
people and the taxpayers because we kind
of gloss over a lot of things that I
just I want to bring out you know that's
why I'm on the board I just want more a
little bit more detail but I mean I'm
fine with moving these particular
minutes forward but I definitely wanted
to get that comment out there I think we
just need a little bit more and they're
and they just have yeah they need a
little more substance too them so that
people that haven't been at the meeting
can pick them up um you know and
understand what we're talking about
thank
you okay other
comments or
motions
anyone typically is chair I won't I
wasn't at the last meeting so I was
going to abstain so I was at the last
meeting so I was gain from at least the
August we need somebody else you should
abstained from the ones you weren't
present at yeah Joanne I'll go ahead and
make a motion to approve both the August
28 2024 regular meeting minutes and the
July 24th 2024 regular meeting revised
minutes as submitted in our packet
today
that thank you okay um any further
discussion
all those in favor say
I I okay so we have uh motion passing
any opposed any extensions so Rob
abstains thank you okay we'll move on to
the next agenda item which is old
Business review of budget to actual um I
would say if there's any specific uh
areas of concern of course Eric you can
bring them up or if any of the board
members have any specific questions or
still pretty early in the budget year so
it's not unusual to see any variances
but uh I didn't see anything personally
that I thought uh raised any concern
points does anybody have any specific
questions or Eric do you have anything
specifically you wanted to point out not
at this point we're still early enough
in the budget that it's pretty hard to
figure out nothing's really there aren't
any real red flags at this point
everything's pretty pretty normal
okay any board members have questions
about
that okay moving on to item 5B which is
the check register again do anybody have
any questions about the check
register I do have a question about
that is the register um just the town of
Andover or is it including the Board of
Education
I thought that supposed to be receiving
board of education check
registers
uh yeah I don't have the board of EDS
check
register uh to share with you it is
possible to get some of their
information from their meeting packet um
but I don't have their uh
I don't know for some reason I thought
that I can get some of the so so let me
let me walk that statement back um we
don't I don't have everything that is
like in in the town Side Of The Ledger
we present more than just the uh just
the actual checks written um I could put
in here the check register from the
checkbook from one of the checkbooks
that the school has their main account
because I do counter sign so I do have
physical copies of those so we certainly
could put the physical copies um they're
not
collated um by any means but I could put
the PDFs from those in the packet if you
want to see those they the check
register from the board Ed is in the
financial reports uh that Theresa sent
around on 95 so even though they're not
in the packet we we should have them
technically or theoretically they're in
your email so right and understand she
doesn't send me those she sends you
those so I don't have that okay so if
you want that in your packet you'll have
to send it to me to put in the packet
got it yeah
okay other that's all I was gonna yeah I
was just going to add Mark that they've
done a good job about including more
financial information since we had that
meeting as far as the reporting and like
Eric says it probably doesn't go to him
but it goes to the town
Treasurer so does it yeah yeah it's
addressed to Cheryl with the CC to us
right I'll send it to you fair
enough
yeah okay other other questions or
comments okay hearing none I guess we'll
move on to our next uh our next item uh
Eric so I think we're all set if you
want to uh you want to head on out and
enjoy your vacation all right folks care
luck and thank you all for uh running
for office
here okay so uh again just uh want to re
reiterate what I said in an email I
think to each of the candidates we
really appreciate you um stepping up and
and offering your services to the town
um it it is not a trivial activity um
and uh times of the year it's worse than
others but uh but it's certainly a
commitment and we appreciate your uh
your willingness to uh put your name in
and step up um what we're going to do in
the interests of and we're very
fortunate to have uh several candidates
and I clearly I think you many if not
all of you would would do a good job um
because in the past sometimes there been
one or two candidates then you know you
kind of wonder whether we're really
getting uh getting you know we still had
good candidates we've been lucky but uh
but it's nice to have a lot of interest
and a lot of choice um as I said I think
what we're going to do just
uh pop up open to my email
there so basically what the process is
going to be is um we're going to take
each candidate in turn as you show up in
the uh agenda just because that's how it
was put together um we just want you to
uh spend a few minutes to introduce
yourselves you can tell us a little bit
about your background why you're
interested in the job um you know what
you think you're you you bring into the
table um any thoughts you have in the
board of Finance what the role
responsibility or Direction maybe should
be from your perspective if you if you
have a a particular view you may not I
mean most of us didn't when we joined
this board it was new and and it would
be new to I think all of you sometimes
we have returning candidates or members
uh so that's absolutely fine you know
some of it's it's going to be a learning
experience for almost anybody it's spent
of time there so don't be afraid of that
um that's uh totally okay um well then
for you know again taking that first and
then second then third candidate in turn
after you've introduced yourself that
will give the board of Finance members
an opportunity to ask any specific
questions they have we will try to keep
that brief um just in the interest of uh
being efficient and uh you know not
dragging this on really long and some of
our meetings sometimes get long but
that's normally during the budget season
we do want to do the right thing uh but
uh we'll try to keep it uh efficient uh
and not uh waste anybody's time um and
then once we've heard from all of the
candidates in turn we will adjourn to
Executive session and as I explained in
the email and I'll repeat for the
purposes of the recording is that is not
a public uh portion of the meeting so at
that point I will move all the
participants in the zoom meeting to the
waiting room uh and you'll get the hang
out there uh have a cup of tea or coffee
whatever you'd like to do uh and the
board of finance will then have a
private discussion on the candidates um
we'll come out of executive session uh
hopefully it won't take a super long
time but who knows uh we come out of
executive session the nominations for
the candidates and the voting will be
public uh so we won't be deciding
necessarily holding a vote in secret and
then coming out and announcing a
candidate uh will come out and actually
have a public vote because there will it
is part of the public
record okay
um let's
see yeah and then that's uh that's
basically it if uh the board of Finance
is able to agree on a candidate and one
of the candidates is nominated and then
uh receives a majority of the of the
vote then uh they will become the new uh
Board of Finance member not immediately
you need to be sworn in by I can't if
it's the town clerk justice of peace
something cler cler you do need to be
sworn in uh by by a town official uh
before you can actually assume your
duties okay um once that happens uh if
it happens tonight you never know we
could be deadlocked um we've seen
interesting things in neighboring towns
recently um hopefully not this board
tends to function pretty well but you
know you never know uh you're all of
course welcome to stay or uh or head out
um you know you don't need to stay by
any means but again we just appreciate
everyone's
participation um and then uh
we just basically have some open
discussion at Jour the meeting from
there okay I guess that's it any for the
comments from the questions from the
board Mark I just want to add too that I
think it's great that we have such
qualified candidates that we have all
this interest I mean the town is growing
and doing a lot of things so it's it's
great to see all of you and I mean it's
you know reading through everything I
was so impressed
um and um yeah to to get involved in the
town is is such a good thing and and I'm
thankful that we have a lot of qualified
candidates and thank you for taking the
time so looking forward to hearing from
all of you like Mark said I know Mark is
wanting to keep things brief and I get
that but it's really an important
meeting so um we'll go with he's he's
the chairperson so we go with his
Direction but I also just I want to
learn about you I mean I read paper but
I want to hear what the people you know
involved are um I also yeah I'm GNA
leave the rest of the comments because I
do have a couple comments but I'm going
to wait till we hear from you so that
that's it but thank you all for joining
us okay anything else from the
board okay um well hearing none I guess
we will go in order so the first uh
first candidate we have to hear from is
jod gross so we do have uh Jody's uh
resume and background or document uh in
the agenda in the packet hopefully
you've had a chance to review that so
Jody wanted to go ahead and uh take a
few minutes and tell us a little bit
about who you are and you know what your
background is and uh you know what you
think about the position Etc as I
outlined earlier sure thing thanks Mark
um hi everyone I'm jod gross I am a
husband father of two lived in town for
uh over 20 years now uh have a formal
education uh with uh a financial
background actually formal Financial
education at Bryant uh Business Degree
there with of concentration and finance
masters of
business um at uh at Yukon um I have a
30-year career in Consulting in health
plans in uh operational financial and
executive level roles um from from a
financial perspective deep understanding
of budget development
processes um actual versus budget
reviews um expense management Revenue
optimization um I think the real
question is why does jod want this role
why did I put my hat in into the into
the um candidacy for this and it's
really two um two reasons one truly love
the town of vover I've been here over 20
years it has so much to offer and I
really want to make sure that we have um
Financial stability for years to come
because I don't plan on going anywhere
the second reason really is more
personal I'm at the point in my career
where I'm giving back to things that
matter to me right I've you wna reuse
this plate I'm
sorry go sorry second reason is I'm I'm
I'm giving back a lot um to the
community that I that I've been part of
um part of the Andover greater together
uh committee uh giving out grants based
in the Hartford Foundation recently part
of the charter revision and would like
to come on to the board of Finance to
share uh many different ideas I have for
um to help improve the finances of the
of of of the Town um I think you you
asked about approach um I'm a firm
believer in that better decisions happen
with many people rather than
individual uh person uh I I really
believe in listening to understand um I
think it's important that there's always
a devil's advocate someone to sort of
push back on what everyone's thinking um
and I think you know there's content
that happens and reviewed but it's
usually the context around it those
relationships those impacts that matters
the most um my My Philosophy financially
my fiscal policy is I certainly want
lower you know low tax
in our town but really believe we need
to make sure we continue to invest in
the needed infrastructure um you know
I'm watching my roads get get resurfaced
which I think is a great idea as opposed
to completely repaved um and lastly I
think um we need to make sure that we
have sound smart fiscal uh expense
management um I view this board as an
oversight but really also an action
board in our town um not just one to sit
back passively but really to be
pressuring and pushing on um Eric in the
town to be driving for um you know rfps
for services that we need optimizing
Revenue uh building the budget um um so
I know I only have five minutes so I
guess I'll stop there and um just say
thank you for um evaluated me for
candidacy okay appreciate it thank you
Jody um did board have any specific
questions just raise your hand if you
would let me know so I can
uh keep it
under under
control I have a question yeah go ahead
Kim um do you have any thoughts or ideas
on how to gradually decrease our budget
instead of increasing it annually Cody
absolutely so the first thing I I'd
question now granted I've been in a
corporate environment not in a municipal
environment
but some of those same practices I think
bode well right RFP for
services trash
it um you know salt mowing all the
things that this town does are we are we
RFP frequently enough um and at the
right dollar thresholds the second idea
um you know I think I would I would I
would say on the on the revenue side uh
I mean that that's actually expense
management but on the revenue side
grants are we optimizing all the grants
do we have enough grant writing
capability in town are we leveraging
Town residents to help prepare the
grants and then maybe Eric and others in
town can can um Can can help get the um
actually review it and get it done um on
the expense side are we optimizing
prepay discounts uh bulk discounts are
we purchasing things we should with
other towns as opposed to individually
as Andover um you know um you know th
those are just some of the ideas that I
have um you know in canid you know it's
funny I was looking at your expense
actual versus expenses and you know and
uh I would dump that into Excel and
divide it by however many months there
are and really see it I'd also really
see if our town could do that budget
monthly um and I know that's a
guesstimate and timing is off but I'm
not quite sure how we're really you know
we're just relying on Eric to to say
everything looks fine he's a wonderful
person but I think there's some great
ideas that I'd like to bring forward to
the to the board if put on it um other
ideas I had energy audits I'm not sure
if that's been done in town but our town
buildings as we think about heating
lighting those are all opportunities are
we real do we have the right correct
bulbs do we have the correct heating
process um evaluation of fees you know
as I I look at up my my home value has
increased do our permits and all the
fees in towns up are are we benchmarking
those appropriately with other
communities and other towns I don't have
the right answers for all of these but
these would be things I'd like to bring
forward to this
board okay thank
youan that was a very detailed answer
and you could tell you have a lot of
ideas so I appreciate that I do um I
think it's a lot put on Eric I mean I'm
saying this to all the candidates it's a
lot put on Eric to expect him to be the
manager of employees manager of the town
and different things and and handle what
you said so thank you for bringing that
forth I think that's a good comment I
mean I think that's why we have a
treasur and financial people and and
different things like that I couldn't
agree more I just wanted to know because
I'm gonna ask every candidate this so
I'm sorry and you're well prepared with
answers so I have you been I thought it
was important and I think it is
important as a board of Finance member
that I kind of know what's going on in
town and I make sure that I show up at
other meetings and before I ran it
doesn't mean everyone has to go this way
I'm so happy that everyone's involved in
wanting to throw their hat in the ring
but it helped me a lot to just be
present show up at Board of Finance
meetings Board of uh Board of selectman
meetings kind of to follow the pulse of
the town have you been able to do that
Jody yeah absolutely so um been to
several Board of Selectmen meetings um
in part I was selected to be on the
charter revision commission but uh been
involved in advocating for issues and
board of Select meetings I've seen you
there I know you ask a lot of questions
for understanding Joanne which is
wonderful it's how we all learn um and I
think the great resource we have in town
is the YouTube channel so um I'll often
I've watched you guys here on the board
of Finance multiple times via YouTube
that's great no I like I thank you for
that that's my question
mark okay anything else from the board
of Finance members I raised my hand Mark
yeah bill yeah just maybe you talked
about um um a few things Jody uh and
that you're happy to see the
infrastructure of the Town being
improved I just was wondering what your
thoughts on um RAM and uh AES were in
general
um yeah on on schools and yeah um you
know I haven't developed my both my kids
went through Andover Elementary School
had a great education um and in in in
Ram right one's a contracted with the
Navy off launch the others had colle
with psychology um you know what is it a
$13 million budget 8.5 million is for
the education um you know I can see that
right now we're we're kind of in this
lower enrollment with Rams so our budget
process was easier if I if you could say
that in the sense that the enrollment
was lower so we didn't our
responsibility wasn't as great um but
that may come around and hurt us in the
future so I think um you know build it
answer your question I mean I think we
just need to we need to continue to
invest in our schools because it's the
foundation of our community but it's
smart investment is how I look at it we
need to Benchmark our investment versus
our peers thank
you any other questions from the
board Louise are you oh
yeah I wanted to ask uh what you know
about and I'm G to want to know this
from every one um what you know about
the town what do you think is the most
important issue right now that is kind
of hovering over our heads that you feel
we should work
on well I know quite a bit about the
town um I really enjoy what it has to
offer whether it's the the the hiking
trails Great Schools going to the
library um getting involved in you know
Recreation events or or or things like
that so um certainly have read the
charter um which is an interesting
document you know being on that Charter
commission understanding how it's
governed is is sort of another unique
thing um you know candidly I'd say the
charter revision is right now a very is
is an item that we should all really
lean into and understand each of those
15 to 20 different items that were put
forward um really by the board of
Selectmen um you know the charter rision
Commission
we put ideas we put our thoughts our
recommendations but the board of
Selectmen then sort of took it and put
it into wording so I think we should all
get involved in that not necessarily
Board of Finance related but actually it
is because there were some dollar
thresholds that were updated so I'd love
the board of Finance to evaluate are
those correct you know weigh
in okay thank
you okay other questions from the board
of Finance members
going
once okay all right thank you very much
Jody appreciate your time and uh
contribution and again thank you for
volunteering okay next up we have Liz
Liz loic um hope I'm pronouncing your
name and I've known you so I think did
you did good job okay can everybody hear
me y okay um wow Jody you're tough act
to
follow uh nice to meet you um first of
all I would like to thank um all the
members of the board for all you do uh I
know it's it's a commitment for sure and
appreciate all of you and uh Joanne I I
also want to say thank you for that
question that you posed about the um
about the minutes because I've often had
that question so um I appreciate um your
thought about more detailed minutes so
thank you about thank you for that and
should I be selected maybe it's
something I could help out with um so
wanted to introduce myself um um I grew
up Mar in marbor myself graduated from
Rim High School stayed fairly locally
and uh brought up my own children in
centry um and then my husband anded and
I moved here to Andover in
um I then uh had a long career career at
siga and spent the majority of my time
in the special investigations unit where
I investigated healthc care fraud um
spent a couple of years in the legal
department where I helped with uh
settling pre-litigation
disputes um my you know you can read all
those details gory details in my
resume
um
so uh what else about me love this town
um kind of have made it my own have been
very interested in the um inner workings
of the town the um politics and
whatnot um I try to stay current on
what's going on in in local politics um
the past year was a little rough for me
taking care of my mom who was ailing and
so the last year I was a little more off
the off the grid um
but being part of keeping up with the um
various Town boards and whatnot is is
something that I'm very interested in
and like to be involved in um the board
of Finance in particular is important to
me because I feel like the Financial
Health of our town depends on the
critical decisions and recommendations
of this board um we have you know as you
know a small town it's rough times
financially for the residents and having
such a small tax base I think all our
all our decisions are are so
critical um and if I'm
chosen for this position um I retired
two years ago so I have the time and the
commitment to place into the office my
um my commitment is to be an active
participant and to serve the town to the
best of my ability um and to commit to
be an active listener to the taxpayers
and what what they interested in and
what they're concerned about what their
pri priorities are um and I also look at
this board as as a team you know working
together as a team and trying to help
out and serve in the best of my ability
to give whatever I can give where the
needs um where the needs lay um
so that is kind of a quick little down
and dirty about me I'm happy to happy to
answer questions
um okay thank you Liz right we give the
board members an opportunity to ask
their
questions L are you raising your hand I
can't tell it looks like a Thum you're
trying to
unmute bill I'll go with you you have
your hand up I see yeah yeah so I just
was wondering uh I don't want you to
think I'm only focused on education but
I do see in 1981 that you worked for
ramp High School I was wondering if you
could tell us um what you did
there no no no I graduated you graduated
1981 oh I'm sorry I just yeah yeah yeah
yeah yeah no I'm sorry about that
graduate just just to kind of say I did
not grow up in this town I grew up in
marbor in maror went to Ram moved out to
centry stayed fairly local but moved to
centry and then mov moved to Andover in
2015 um you know looking for my dream
Lake home and here I am after dumping
lots of money into it I'm I was looking
on the right hand side under education
rather than the left side under
experience so it's my my mistake but
thank you no problem
y Louise yeah I want to ask L the same
question what she feels is the most
important issue right now that we should
probably concentrate on in town
most important
issue my right now I just
feel fiscal responsibility is just so
key um I just feel like there's just so
much um UN
unsettledness in um kind of like in the
world and in the state and and
financially I just feel feel like
everyone is just so strapped
and I would like to dig down and find
areas maybe in our budget to kind of
lift a little bit of the burden for the
taxpayers
um I've listened to the budget meetings
and the um meetings at
the the little budget workshops in the
beginning of the year and stuff and um
sometimes as a participant in that or a
listener in that it doesn't always feel
like a real workshop and I feel like
maybe we could get we could drill down a
little bit further and try to find ways
to maybe cut a little bit of fat maybe
find find areas that maybe aren't maybe
we're spending money on that
um maybe to prioritize a little bit
better um and I don't know what that
area is yet but I think drilling down
and really um analyzing
um the budget's better maybe we can find
ways where we can save a little
and just kind of
prioritize okay thanks Liz Joanne yeah
and I appreciate your honesty Liz I
think it's important that everyone just
says their reasons and what they want to
do on the committee and you know as all
of you are so far um and I seeing you
you're you're a face that I have seen a
lot at meetings and things like that but
I appreciate that jod also brought up
that there is YouTube that like me
sometimes I will catch up on meetings
while I'm at somewhere you know or
whatever and listen to a town meeting or
something that I want to catch up on so
I have to be fair and I can understand
that it's also on the QVC right is that
it might not QV I don't that Network the
TV you know when they TVC I think yeah
yeah thank you so I understand that
people aren't always going to be present
back in the day everyone showed up and
you got interested and you got to see
the faces like some of these that I've
seen so I want to be fair with that so
the only reason I didn't you know I will
pose that to you Liz and You' kind of
brought it up yourself too that you have
taken the time to go to meetings and be
involved and I have seen you at many
when I was going to them as well so
thank you for that my
pleasure okay other questions from the
board
I just have one question for Liz
um so Liz you mentioned that you've done
a lot of work with investigating things
and looking into things um if you were
elected as a board of Finance member
would you be willing to do some research
like off meetings and then bring it back
to the board of finance and talk with
everybody about it on your own time
because sometimes absolutely it does
take some time
my my my commitment my reason for for
doing this and is really it kind of
gives me another purpose so post
retirement I want to remain active in
the community community I want to
challenge my brain and research is I
just I just love it I've always loved it
and
um I want to be an active participant
I'm not going to be a sideline person I
might not always have the best ideas but
I feel like everyone getting their heads
together
um everybody has something to offer like
there's never one person that knows it
all and this is what I always said in my
job I may not know it all as a manager I
might not know all the answers you might
not know the all the answers but
together we have so much experience that
between the group we can find the
answers for what we need
and um I'm happy to research on the side
prepare documents on the side
um whatever um and come
prepared as an AC participant thank
you yeah thanks other questions from the
board okay very good uh thank you very
much Liz um we'll go on to our next
candidate this is Marcy minor I just
want to point out that the agenda is
incorrect the packet it's Marcy M rcie I
assume it's just a typo there because it
was in it was correct in the things that
we received from the town clerk um so
we'll make sure that that that's just
reflected um and uh Marcy's with us so
are you off mute yep so if you want to
go ahead again and just kind of give us
the same uh overview the you introduce
yourself and tell us why you're
interested in the board and and uh go
there hi yes um my name is Marcy Miner
I've been in town since 88 so it's been
quite a while 36 years and
uh obviously I really uh like Andover
enough that not only do I have a house
in Andover I also have a vacation home
in Andover so um and I I'm really uh
really excited to see uh the two
candidates that were just on uh they're
very qualified and I'm really excited
about that because I think that it's
important that we have a strong board
and that we have people that you know
that don't have Alterna motives you know
that they you know really want to just
give back to the town and uh that's why
I uh chose to get involved because I
think it's important that we give back
and uh I've you know throughout my adult
life life that's you know what I've done
a lot I've volunteered quite often
almost you know throughout as much as I
could um you know I've been on the uh
Library board I've been on aloa I've
been on uh the beautification committee
and in fact I was uh was on the
beautification committee for quite a bit
um started my business here landscaping
and so kind of went hand inand and um we
did really did a lot with uh you know
getting the Gazebo we never had a gazebo
before but then we had one Ed Ed turn
was you know part of that getting that
involved and we landscaped that and so
you know it's it it kind of you know I
have a lot of pride in the town and uh
it feels really good to be you know part
of that and to know that you know you've
actually contributed to that and um yeah
I'm really excited about things that
have been going on in the town lately we
finally have the senior center or
Community Center and uh that's you know
been a long long road coming to get that
so so anyway
um uh yeah I I would I'm interested in
joining the board of Finance because I
have you know I have a lot of experience
I've
um ran my business our business for uh
since we started in in 1990 so we've had
that for 34 years and um I graduated
from uh Eastern Connecticut State
University with a business management
marketing degree
so uh so it's been it's it's been you
know pretty much my almost my own whole
entire entire adult life and Andover and
um we've really um done a lot know a lot
of people and and uh like I said I like
just you know interested and wanted to
make sure
uh we have some good candidates and so I
um you know just decided I have a little
bit of time more time than normal so I'm
able to give back and I think it's an
important board to uh have some good
qualified candidates so anyway thank you
okay thank you MRC um questions from the
board members Louise hey Marcy um just
wondering feel is the most
pressing uh um item in the town right
now same question I'm asking everybody
else one of the things that um that I
noticed whenever I go to board meetings
it's never very clear as to the budgets
don't seem to be transparent so I think
it's I think it that would be something
that I think would be important to try
to make sure that the that the budgets
are transparent easy for everyone to
understand um I've tried to get a lot of
people involved in going to town
meetings and getting involved in the
budget process but they don't seem to
really understand where the money is
going and uh they feel frustrated and so
I kind of like to make it so it's it's
uh it's more transparent
basically okay
thank other questions from the board
members Marcy again I know that I've
seen you at sorry Mark if I um I've seen
you at many meetings so I know that you
you always do try to get involved um
just a little background with that we
have tried to because you pointed that
out um we do get a lot of reporting and
everything there is a lot of stuff that
does go on behind the scenes as far as
maybe what you don't see I don't mean
secret meetings I just mean information
gathering sending things looking for
information questions asked data asked
for all that kind of thing um we do have
a lot of back and forth things but I I
think you're right when you go to a
budget meeting like in the town and
people that haven't followed the process
that's why I get at my question have you
followed what's been going on um you
know and and usually something in the
town strikes you for wanting to join a
board and and I don't this isn't about
me at all I'm just saying one when I saw
the River East one year and we were
going to have a 10% tax increase or
something huge you know before the
pandemic or you know boom I was at the
next meeting so I mean there is a lot of
stuff where you we're you know we try to
get things so that's that's a nice point
that you're bringing out I don't want
you to think it hasn't been asked for
and I'm not saying we don't get it I
mean there there is a give and take um
so it's good to have fresh ideas of what
you think that looks like you know um so
there you go
but I I can't ask you my question
because I've seen you many many times so
there you go yeah I try to stay involved
I try to you know keep in touch with
what's going on and uh and yeah so it's
and obviously like you're right if
you're not there through throughout the
whole Pro process you're not going to
know everything that's going on but
there are some things that could be a
littleit easier for people to grasp I
think all right thank you other members
or questions for the board of members of
the board uh
Kim um Marcy you seem like you're very
busy and you have a lot going on do you
think you can make the time commitment
for the monthly
meetings yes I um I've
actually um taken steps
to simplify our business so it's made it
so that I've had a little bit more time
to devote and I wouldn't put myself out
there if I didn't think that I could you
know spend the time because I think it's
important not only that you just go to
meetings but also that you have the time
to do some you know some
investigations uh I know a lot of times
I've looked at meetings but I've also
you know went beyond and looked at other
towns budgets and other things that go
on in other towns it takes time so it's
definitely a Time commitment so and I
I've Al always been interested in the
board of Finance but I've always
hesitated because I know that a lot of
the meetings that happen happened to
happen in the spring and that's when I'm
busy a lot so um so I've been able to
reduce that workload a bit so it's made
it so that I feel like I could donate
the
time thank you I appreciate you handed
with
us sure
other questions from the board of
Finance
members okay thank you very much Marcy
we will
goad we move on to our next candidate um
we have Heather vanera hope I'm
pronouncing that correctly
Heather okay uh we can't hear
you don't appear to be on mute but we're
not hearing you
technical
difficulties sometimes people will call
in on their phone too as well oh there
you go yeah there you go yeah that's
that's really the next option so yeah
hopefully we don't get any
feedback
right Heather do you have your volume up
on your device that you're using
sometimes that will prevent you from
joining the
meeting Mark May we can move to the next
candidate while Heather tries to figure
her
volume yeah it's possibility I would
prefer not to just because technically
we're supposed to follow the agenda
order um I don't think it's has any
substantive difference
so okay and say of course it's the
meeting Eric's not here they might have
some little tricks behind the scene I
don't I don't know that yeah I don't
think I don't think uh there's anything
different now she's not she's not muted
by the host there's really nothing that
uh we can control over there so yeah so
Heather can log out log back in yeah you
know maybe going on to the next
candidate and having you rejoin to see
if is that
okay okay I feel badly that's terrible
you wait all this time
technical issues right
so the worst Co didn't bring anything
out it's certainly brought out the uh
the risk of those type of things so okay
so if everyone's in agreement is anybody
on the everyone on the board in
agreement that we can just move on to
the next candidate and then we'll come
back to Heather after yes yeah okay good
I think we're okay then um so sorry
about that we'll uh we'll go ahead so um
our next candidate and then will be uh
Bata and then we'll come back to Heather
and uh so Bata I'm pronouncing your name
correctly right you are mark thank you
okay good uh so again for the same as
the other candidates if you want to go
ahead and uh give us an overview of
yourself your background your interest
in the board and uh we'll go from there
sure uh Scott just made a
com okay that was you Heather I added
you to the meeting but it's it's it's
echoing so I I'll just muted your phone
okay do you speak since you got her
connected um well I guess we can try
that and see I'm fine with that to
retain the meeting
agend okay Heather I don't know if I can
have you
unmute oh can you guys hear me now
I anybody remember the workaround to
this because I think we've had this
before speakers on your
computer I'm so
sorry about
it I feel like she has to release her
computer and just go on the phone for
now
okay I'm going to mute you right now
Heather and we'll go ahead and go on to
Bata but I think if you mute your
speakers on your computer then you
should be able to join without having
the echo I
think not an expert either so I mean
worst comes to worst you drop out of the
meeting on the computer and just do the
phone yeah yeah you could do that too
that's fine that's I mean just in the if
that's the at the Ed or if everything
else doesn't work yeah okay okay so yeah
we'll go back to you then sorry for the
confusion everyone if you want to go
ahead and give us your overview sure um
I don't know that I've had the pleasure
of meeting most of you in person as I am
somewhat newer to town but my name is
Bata adamsky um I have been a resident
of Andover since August
2021 uh we moved to town from marbor
where we lived for 10 years uh but I
grew up in New York um and a large part
of my interest in the board of Finance
is really to just become more involved
with the town in general I have two
children at Andover Elementary School um
who have quite some time left in our
school system in general and growing up
in New York uh it was a very large
school system very large town where you
know you never really felt like if you
spoke up your voice would be heard just
due to the large number of people and so
now that I'm on another side of the
river so to speak um I would like to
have my voice heard in town and
contribute positively to our community
um I graduated from Eastern in 2007 with
a Bachelor's in Business Administration
and went on to work for Enterprise renar
uh for almost 10 years I went through
their Management training program which
they say is the best similar to a
business uh to a master's degree if
you've seen all the the jokes that they
make about it but um it did teach me a
lot about customer service about
community service about business of
course I was responsible for at some
point um up to 50 employees I helped
Pioneer a division within the company in
New England that became one of the most
successful um divisions of that company
here in the commercial truck field being
up at 4 a. knocking on business's doors
working with procurement officers and
finance officers um to generate business
from the ground up and my take on
Andover since coming into town is that
it's an upand cominging community and I
think we do have a lot to offer but I in
fact would like to see us have more to
offer um I'm currently working as a real
estate professional I'm in sales there
um it's not really a sales job but
everyone calls it a sales job but uh I
have a lot of sales background as retail
as well and restaurants and and that
kind of thing and like I said I would
just like to see our town continue to
grow and improve and be an amazing place
to live which I do feel it is but why
stop where we're at you know I'm looking
to the very long-term future as now that
I'm here I don't see myself going
anywhere like most of you uh for many
many years and you know I am kind of
looking big picture and long term at
what we can do in town now to really
continue to make this a place where
families want to come and live and raise
their kids and send them to school and
where businesses want to establish roots
and invest in the community and I think
if we all as you know Town people um
join forces and work together to bring
in not only our residents to help maybe
offset some of the budget uh wo that we
have felt that some of us have already
addressed in town um but how can we take
the burden off the taxpayer um and
continue to keep and maintain and
improve what we already have by bringing
in more businesses um so recently I have
tried to dive into being involved in the
community as on many levels as I can um
from joining the Veterans Field
Improvement committee to uh recently
putting my name in for economic
development um I really am looking to
serve my community in as many ways as I
can over the past few years I've become
very involved in uh several different
charity organizations through my
professional work um and through the
boards that I serve through the greater
Harford Association of Realtors um pride
myself in having a Connecticut business
license and I know what it takes and the
financial impact that you know our our
state is facing our small business
owners um and so yeah anything I can do
to just improve where I live the
community for my children my family um
I'm 110% invested in that plus um in
addition I think I provide a unique
perspective to the town and to any board
I might be so you know graciously able
to serve on um in that I live in a
multigenerational home uh one of the big
reasons for moving to Ando is that my
parents during the pandemic my father's
Health was uh not doing so great and
unfortunately we did lose him this past
spring um but living with two seniors in
town as well as two School AG children
um coming in kind of during a budget
season and seeing um some of
unfortunately what I felt is divide in
our community I'd really like to be
someone who can help bring us all
together um for everybody's interests um
you know and needs to be met so I'm just
here to serve and to meet as many people
in town and um hope like I said to make
and over the best town to live in in
Connecticut okay thank you very much B
so we'll go back to the board members uh
specific questions for the candidate
Lise um so sorry about your
dad yeah um you might probably have a
good um because you have
multi-generational you probably see on
both sides between the kids and the
seniors which is a good type of
um view to have type of thing what do
you feel that would be more important
right now in town to really
prioritize well I do agree that the town
Charter is something of high priority in
my opinion at the moment um the
basic framework for how we operate you
know is obviously the foundation that
the house is built on um so you know I'm
very interested to see how that plays
out and then like I said I think that
there is a way and maybe I'm an eternal
optimist but I think there's a way that
everybody who lives here can have
everything that they want and it's just
a matter of Us coming together and not
polarizing ourselves like we see
unfortunately so much right now um just
out in the world and dare I say
politically um you know so I think
looking to the long-term planning which
I was so pleased and very excited by
that meeting um that presentation that
was given by the uh planning and zoning
committee last week um you know how can
we really sustain what Andover has been
and also move forward with all the
changes that are happening with
technology and with green energy and
with what people who are coming into
Connecticut leaving other states um
maybe States like California states like
New York States like Massachusetts that
I see clients moving here from every day
and why they're coming here right and
let's hone in on that and really be a
place where people want to
be okay thank you other questions from
the board members Joanne well I just
want to say I mean you gave an admirable
speech for someone that just came to you
know a talk and I appreciate it getting
to know about you because I am a people
person and I like to hear everyone's
story and why they want to serve so
you're and everyone has a different
angle that you know we're gleaning on
and all for the common good hopefully
that's why we all do want to serve and
you know all of that so that's really
good to hear and you have a lot of
perspectives as Louise pointed out the
other thing that I really liked you
saying because this was um kind of near
and dear to my heart was the economic
development part of it we don't want to
overwhelm obviously our little town of
vover but it is important to bring a
little bit of commercial tax base into
the town so that we can you know share
that kind of thing you will find and I'm
not here to give the speech as I looked
into it too that there are certain
reasons such as sewers and power and all
those good things that Adrien taught me
well about when he was you know on a
board too that I learned about even
though I had all these great ideas so
there are some drawbacks that you hear
about and that's why I love to you know
increase my knowledge with that kind of
thing but um I would I feel like my
question is kind of silly now that I was
going to say have you followed the
clearly you have you've all talked about
it in your talks that you have made
yourself familiar with what's going on
in town so you've zoomed into a couple
meetings or you know watched on YouTube
to know what's going current the yes yes
I attend Board of Education meetings
yeah um I guess one meeting that I've
only really started to catch up on more
would be Board of Selectmen um just
learning to understand how the small
town levels work um but as Liz knows
coming from marbor you know I'm very
familiar with why they didn't have
commercial for a very long time and I
was there and kind of becoming a new
member of that Community while a lot of
that commercial development was coming
about and how they found the right
investors and I think you know everybody
that I've kind of heard opinions from in
town has you know holds end over so near
and dear to their heart and that really
was the initial Catalyst that made me
want to get involved I'm like oh my God
all these people love this town so much
they're so outspoken I've got to learn
more about what's going on and why
people are in love with this town and
and just I think finding the right fit
for our town is so important and um one
thing that I pride myself on in my
business that I would love to bring to
this um committee and to any way that I
can serve in town is communication and I
think a lot of other people talked about
that tonight um how we communicate with
our Town's people is really important
and just getting the right information
out
in the um in the most uh understandable
way that doesn't ruffle as many feathers
as possible I'm an ultimate people
pleaser I hate to alienate anyone so it
was quite uncomfortable in fact for me
to think about coming out for any
positions because I wouldn't ever want
to alienate someone um but I I've gotten
over that a little bit to try to get out
here and just become more involved in
what I can do for our
town okay thank
you other questions from the board
members
I have one uh Kim sure um you mentioned
some issues or questions or observations
about our town
Charter what are the things that you
think that you would want to change or
update or you know what what are your um
focus points on our
Charter I I don't want to claim to be
you know the ultimate uh resource or
knowledgeable person about the town
Charter um I don't even know that I have
a massive opinion on what should or
shouldn't be changed I do think that um
the board of Selectmen should remain
able to vote on issues I do think the
town's people should be able to remain
to go to referendum meetings um and to
come in and speak up we are a small town
and that's like the beauty of being a
small town is that everyone's voice can
be heard so I would like to see that
that aspect remain in place um aside
from that like I said I don't want to
claim to be a um you know super
knowledgeable on that topic not having
seen exactly how the town operates for
long enough to I think weigh in any much
more at this
time thank
you okay any other questions from the
board
members okay thank you very much B
appreciate your input and volunteering
okay so we'll try Heather again how are
we doing can we hear
you not hearing you on the phone I think
the phone is
muted she just put the message uh on the
chat she at 3133 does
that yeah can you hear me now yeah yes
we can perfect okay y I'm so sorry about
all that I don't know what's going on
with my computer
we've had that before sometimes just
inexplicable we're back so yeah all
right I don't know I mean I've been on
many of Zoom calls so I don't know what
was happening but I'm glad I got through
finally no problem it the sound quality
is good sounds fine okay so same
question as the other candidates don't
you or give you an opportunity to kind
of tell us about yourself your
background your interest in the board of
finance and uh you know kind of what
your orientation towards it or or you
might
bring so my name is Heather vanara I'm
so happy to meet all of you finally I've
seen your names many places so it's nice
to put uh faces to names for sure um
I've been in town since 2003 so about 20
21 years or so um I did have a daughter
that went through Andover Elementary
School which we loved I um work for
Signa Healthcare so I'm might have to
talk to liiz about that at some point
I've been there uh over 20 years in the
underwriting department so I'm very
familiar with
Financial uh profit and loss and we go
through year end settlements for I'm an
underwriter for Middle Market cases
medical um so we go through year-end
settlements for those cases and we go
through and I am familiar with the risk
financial analysis because we try to
determine what rates these companies
should pay B based on their claims
experience and that kind of thing so I'm
I'm very familiar with like Risk risk
management
um and cash flow and and trying to
reduce risk and improve outcomes um I do
that every day um I think the board of
Finance role is an important it's a very
important for the town we have to be
solvent um I want the community to Be an
Effective Community overall this is my
first board Pro I did look at the
charter um committee but I didn't get on
that one so I'm I'm trying to like put
myself out there more and get more
involved in the town now that my
daughter in college I have much more
time to be able to do this um as far as
the topic that is most important to the
board now I think our budget is is quite
lean and I have heard from different
members that the portion that Andover is
going to have to contribute to the ram
budget will be increasing so I think
that's probably one of the most
important things coming up and also the
infr infrastructure of the town is is
important but like Jody said I like
seeing all the roads done and everything
so um I think I think that's I don't
know that's about
it okay thank you um we have uh
questions from the
board
L go ahead Louise yeah Heather answered
the question so okay yeah okay yeah
after a while you start to see the
pattern right so yeah
I figured I would just answer it right
away yeah Heather and I was just gonna
say too have you you know being in the
town for 21 years have you been
following things and obviously you know
you said now that your daughter's away
or in college I mean have you been able
to attend different meetings see how
things run kind of know the history of
how the town was I mean there's been so
much I've been here since I think Liz
said 200 no forget it wrong wrong year
I've been here since 2005 not 2015 wrong
wrong decade um but have you followed
the pattern do you know you know what's
been going on in the financial office
like different things that have happened
at all and it's so you know I I I would
I I have followed honestly on and off
Through The Years some some years I've
been better at it than other years um I
think it definitely would be a learning
experience to come on and and learn how
everything is done but honestly on and
off through the years I've been more
involved and less involved depending on
what's going on in my life well you have
to start somewhere and it's great to
just want to be involv so I just like to
ask that question because it even though
we are a small town like a lot of you
have pointed out it's been a little bit
of a complicated Town Through The Years
not that we need to get in the weeds
with that but it's just kind of good to
know a little bit of the history of the
financial office too you know of that so
thank you for that
answer yep okay other questions from the
board
members no bill you're shaking your head
I'm not sure it look like you're gonna
no no I'm good okay
good okay last uh going once going twice
okay I guess then uh again uh Heather
thank you for uh volunteering and thank
you to all the candidates um as I
explained earlier we will now go into
executive session uh we'll stop the rec
ing uh we will move um all but the board
of Finance members into the waiting room
uh you're welcome to wait of course you
don't have to um and then depending on
how long it takes you know we'll we'll
eventually come out of executive session
the recording will commence uh once
again and we will entertain nominations
for uh the uh replacement Board of
Finance member uh once again thank you
for all of your patience and uh your
willingness to help so I'm going to go
ahead and start that process now